#LyX 1.6.7 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{color}
\usepackage{moreverb}

\newcommand{\pd}[2]{\frac{\partial #1}{\partial #2}}
\newcommand{\fdo}[1]{\mathcal{D}_{#1}}
\newcommand{\sdo}[1]{D_{#1}}
\newcommand{\tdo}[1]{D_{#1}}
\newcommand{\fd}[2]{\fdo{#1} #2}
\newcommand{\sd}[2]{\sdo{#1} #2}
\newcommand{\td}[2]{\tdo{#1} #2}
\newcommand{\pdd}[2]{\frac{\partial^2 #1}{\partial #2^2}}
\newcommand{\pddd}[2]{\frac{\partial^3 #1}{\partial #2^3}}
\newcommand{\pmix}[3]{\frac{\partial^2 #1}{\partial #2 \partial #3}}
\newcommand{\pmixx}[4]{\frac{\partial^3 #1}{\partial #2 \partial #3 \partial #4}}
\newcommand{\funcd}[2]{\frac{\partial #1}{\partial #2}}
\newcommand{\spaced}[2]{{\cal D}^{#1} #2}
\newcommand{\totald}[2]{{D}^{#1} #2}

\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left\vert{#1}\right\vert}
\newcommand{\od}[2]{\frac{d #1}{d #2}}
\newcommand{\odd}[2]{\frac{d^2 #1}{d #2^2}}
\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}

\definecolor{lightgray}{rgb}{0.9,0.9,0.9}
\definecolor{red}{rgb}{0.5,0.0,0.0}
\definecolor{green}{rgb}{0.0,0.5,0.0}

\lstset{language=C++,tabsize=2,backgroundcolor=\color{lightgray}}
\lstset{frame=single}
\lstset{basicstyle=\ttfamily\small}
\lstset{commentstyle=\itshape}
\end_preamble
\options xcolor=dvipsnames
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
theorems-ams-extended
\end_modules
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman palatino
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\branch answers
\selected 1
\color #5555ff
\end_branch
\leftmargin 0.9in
\topmargin 0.75in
\rightmargin 0.9in
\bottommargin 0.75in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Linear solvers
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A linear solver is an object that takes a matrix 
\begin_inset Formula $A$
\end_inset

, a vector 
\begin_inset Formula $b$
\end_inset

, and solves the equation 
\begin_inset Formula $Ax=b$
\end_inset

.
 There are many methods for solving systems, and even given the same method
 we might have several different choices of implementations of that method.
 The Trilinos library, for instance, has three major linear solver packages
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Amesos is a collection of direct (sparse 
\begin_inset Formula $LU$
\end_inset

 and sparse Cholesky) solvers suitable for PDE problems up to a few hundred
 thousand unknowns.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Belos is a collection of Krylov methods 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Aztec is a legacy collection of Krylov methods, being superseded by Belos.
 Aztec is (at present) somewhat faster than Belos, but is more difficult
 to customize to problems involving block structure, unusual preconditioners,
 or unusual stopping conditions.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We might want to use any one of these and it needs to be convenient to switch
 from one solver to another.
 The most common method of creating a solver is to read parameters from
 an XML file and invoke the 
\family typewriter
createSolver()
\family default
 static method of the 
\family typewriter
LinearSolverBuilder
\family default
 class.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
Unfortunately, at present the solver parameters are not well documented.
 In some solver packages they're not documented at all outside the source
 code.
 We need to work with the Trilinos solver developers to improve this situation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Preconditioners
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
